And here we are discussing about steps to create custom Docker image with
the docker build command and also providing name and tax for custom Docker images.
Now let me go with that.
See, we already know that that is docker build command is
used to build a custom Docker image from a Dockerfile.
Anyway, whenever, if you want to create
a custom Docker image from a Docker file by executing docker build command,
actually, we need to follow some steps.
Now let me go with step-by-step.
Now, very first step is you have to create a folder based on project or application.
Let's say in our case,
suppose we are going to build a Jenkins custom Docker image.
And in that case you have to create Jenkins folder in your Docker host.
Now here suppose I'm creating Jenkins folder.
You can create anywhere on your host.
Then after that, we have to navigate into Jenkins holder,
and then we have to create a Docker file.
Now let me navigate into my Jenkins folder.
Now we're under Jenkins folder or directory.
And here we need to create docker file.
Now anyway, as of now,
we are not good width how to create docker file.
We will see that for time me again,
I will use existing Docker file.
Now if you remember, we have our docker file.
Well, let me copy that into current location.
Now we have our Dockerfile.
Fine.
So once if you how your Docker file in your required directory,
then you how to run docker build command that is like the occur dot.
Now let me run the occur in the current location we hope Docker file.
So it will take some time because I'm going to execute it at very first-time.
Actually, we created a Docker image from this Docker file in our last video,
but I deleted all my old images.
I want to create it from first.
That's why I deleted old images.
Now I'm running docker build command.
So it is like you are going to run at very first ten.
That's right, is going to take some time.
Just wait for that.
Once it is done, then we will list our docker images
with the help of docker images command or simply Docker image.
Unless we have two types of commands to list your Docker images.
I will show you them.
Kate is almost done.
Just wait for three or four seconds. Then.
Now, just now it has been a created a custom Docker image within the image ID.
Let me clear my screen.
See that to list1 Docker images actually we are using docker images command.
Anyway, just now a week later, the image ID.
And while running or docker build command simply we ran in this way, that way.
This command is not creating any tags or name for your image.
That's fine.
And to list your Docker images,
we have one more command called Docker image Ls.
Both are giving same result. That's fine.
Now, see that as of now you how your image without any tax or without any name,
but assume that I need to provide name under tags for my custom images.
Then in that case, you have to run simply.
Now Corbay hyphen p,
let say we are going to create Jenkins custom image,
innovate that using CentOS.
So you can write your options slash CentOS,
then colon, whatever the tag you want to mention.
Let say this is Washington,
then space dot c. Now let me listed Docker images.
So that CentOS version V1,
this image anyway, without any modifying your Docker file, you run.
That's why it going to take same image ID even for this image.
Suppose I'm going to run once again by taking V2.
But be clear, we did not modify the Docker file.
So I'm rerunning simply docker build command with version two.
Now see Docker images.
For both the images,
you house same image ID.
Now what I will do is I will modify Dockerfile.
Let's say I'm going to come in a last command,
lost instruction in your Docker file.
Let me do lasted two commands.
Comment. No.
We commented loss of two instructions in our docker file.
So anyway, finally, you modified your Dockerfile.
Now, I wanna create what shouldn't three. Now see the result.
See Docker images.
Now for you or version three,
there is a new image ID because there is
a change in your Docker file in case if you don't
have any change and if you run your docker build command by providing your tags always,
it will take you an existing image ID
only whenever there is a change in your Docker file,
then only it will create a new image ID.
That's it.
And one more thing. Suppose if you build in this way,
I mean without any tax,
then by default it will take tag as,
let us say that it is giving tag as Latest.
Or else we can simply run your Docker images and see that there is a latest image.
So if you provide tag, then we'll take that.
If you don't provide by default,
it will consider that as latest.
Fine.
So that is the simple way to build your Docker images from your Docker file.
C.
We are also having one more command to build your custom Docker image.
That is with the help of Docker image.
Both will use same result.
And this is very simple docker build command.
So if you go with your official Docker documentation,
there is a docker build or if you go somewhere down you how
Docker image in both the options,
you how Docker image bead or simply Docker build file.
If you click on that, see that there are different options.
So anyway, we are at beginning stays that way.
I'm not going to touch them.
Later. We will see step-by-step all the advanced uses of your docker build command.
We haven't a lot of options with your docker build command.
But these are, I mean,
this is very simple,
basic uses of your docker build command.
Okay?
Okay guys, thank you for watching this video.